Suppose you an your team spent
the past month performing an in-depth
analysis around a critical business issue.
You've worked your way through
all the data collection,
preparation, and analysis.
You interpreted results and
developed a rock solid plan for
action that aligns with
the company's strategic goals.
All you need to do is get the sign
off from a key executive and
you can move forward.
The meeting is today and you're prepared.
You've got a binder full of information
that shows your plan is sound, and
you've brought you're laptop in
case you need anything else.
Later that afternoon you find yourself
walking out of the meeting dejected.
The executive arrived a bit late, and
you hardly had time to start walking her
through the analysis design, before she
needed to run to a meeting with the CEO.
You can't get on her calendar
again until next month.
What just happened?
Well maybe we just got unlucky, but
then again it makes some sense that
an executive might be short of time.
Is there something we could have done
better to get the sign off we needed?
This scenario is hardly unique,
as analysts,
it's our job to get
really deep in the data.
We get emerged in our own process and it's
very natural to focus on the analysis and
how we did it when we
present what we found.
We discovered a particular
way to look at a problem and
we tend to want other people to look at
the problem in the same way that we have.
But that's usually not the right approach.
Remember that we call this part of
the process delivering the pitch
in our information action
value chain framework.
What we're actually doing is selling our
ideas to one or more decision makers.
And like any good sales person,
the better we know our customer,
the more likely we are to make the sale.
In this video,
we're going to discuss the golden rule
of presentations, know thy audience.
Now when we say audience, we're talking
both about the people involved and
the environment in which
the presentation will occur.
To put a little structure
around our discussion,
we'll break this idea
down into four elements.
The people, the period,
the place, and the process.
Let's start with the most important
element of the audience, the people.
The more you can understand about
who exactly you're presenting to,
the more you can customize your
message to appeal to that person.
There are a few things we've
want to consider here.
One is the level of the person or
people involved, are they executives,
senior leaders, managers, peers?
As a general rule, the more senior
the audience the more focus
they'll be on the bigger picture and
the conclusions.
For example,
let's say we're presenting to a group of
our peers in the analytics community.
They might not be all that
interested in what we found until we
showed them the process we used
to come to our conclusions.
So, we generally walked them through the
analysis in a natural way from start to
finish and
showed them each step along the way.
However, if we presented the same
material to a senior leader or executive,
we might do just the opposite.
They're not all that interested in what
process we used unless we came up with
something interesting.
With this group, we generally start
with the findings then circle back to
the process as needed and
probably only at a high level.
Now there are exceptions to the rule.
We might know that a particular
executive is very detail-oriented and
prefers the walk-through approach.
In that case, we customize our
presentation to meet her preferences.
There are many other characteristics
of the people in our audience that
might influence how we
approach a presentation.
What is their role, are they knowledgeable
about the area we are discussing or
will they need some context?
This might influence how much lead
in material we need to include.
What are their motivations,
are they predisposed to support or
resist our proposal,
are the audience members aligned or
will there be some different
function in the room?
This could influence all sorts of
decisions we make about the presentation.
Including how starkly we show issues and
how strong our language
should be in discussing them.
What else is going on in their lives?
Is there something inside or outside
the business that might distract or
put them on edge?
Knowing their distractions might
lead us to make our pitch more
quickly and directly.
We meant also take steps
to help relieve tension or
focus the group on the matter at hand.
Again, the more we understand the people
in our audience the more we can customize
our approach to communicate
with them effectively.
The second element we should consider
in making our pitch is the period.
What we mean by period is how much
time is allotted in the meeting and
when the meeting will occur.
One of the most common mistakes just about
everyone makes is underestimating how long
it will take to cover the material
they bring to a meeting.
When we try and cram too much
information into a short period of time,
we either don't finish or
we end up rushing through things.
And to make matters worse,
it turns out people resist
making decisions when they
feel their being rushed.
Generally speaking, we should try to make
our pitches clear and concise as possible.
But whatever we do, we need to make
sure it fits into the time we have.
When we use slides in our presentation,
one rule of thumb we can use to help match
our material to the time we have
is what we call the 5 minute rule.
The 5 minute rule suggests that each
slide in a presentation will occupy
about 5 minutes of time.
So, for a 30 minute meeting,
we can plan to cover 6 slides.
For a 60 minute meeting,
we could plan to cover around 12 slides.
You'll find that many people think
they can cover more than this and
they tend to be mistaken.
They don't account for how long it takes
the audience to absorb the information or
don't anticipate time needed for
questions or discussion.
Often the time we have for a meeting is
closely related to who we're meeting with.
We may have 90 minutes with a manager and
his team but
we may only get 15 minutes with the CFO.
The quantity and composition of our
content needs to adjust to fit both
the time and the people involved.
We also need to consider when
a meeting is taking place.
Is it first thing Monday morning,
if so we might expect a slow start.
People might be a bit late or take
longer to re-engage after the weekend.
Is it late Friday afternoon,
we might need to fight fatigue or
distraction as people look to get home.
Is there some other event, like a board
meeting before or after our meeting?
Is the organization in
the middle of budget planning?
Is it right before or after lunch?
You get the idea.
All these things might influence
how we present to our audience.
Let's move on to a third element
we should consider, place.
There are few aspects of place
that could be important.
One is the size of the room.
Usually it's not too much of an issue
if a room is a bit too large, but
a room that's too small tends to
make things a little uncomfortable.
If we can't change it, we can at
least recognize the environment and
adapt our content or style to compensate.
The orientation of the room
can also play a role.
How is seating arranged?
Is it set up in a way where it's
natural for everyone to be seated, or
is it designed for
a formal standing presentation?
How are people likely
to arrange themselves?
If we have control over the room,
we can often be strategic
about how we set things up.
If we want a formal presentation,
we can set up the room one way.
If we want a less formal discussion,
we can set it up another way.
One technique that's handy for
stimulating conversation and
avoiding an us versus them set up is
to have your team show up early and
distribute themselves
evenly around the room.
This makes it harder for
subgroups to gather together,
say on one side of the table.
We also need to understand what
technology's available in the room and
we need to be able to make it work.
Struggling with a projector or
speakerphone for
the first 10 minutes of a 30 minute
meeting is an easy path to failure.
So is showing up to a meeting
with only a laptop,
and finding out there's no monitor or
projector, or that's it's broken.
Or even worse,
planing to use the conference bridge
when there's no phone in the room.
Speaking of conference bridges, it's
also becoming an increasing common for
meetings to include participants via phone
conferences and web conferences, with or
with out video.
Whether people are in the room or not,
can drastically change how
we execute a presentation.
We generally need to work a bit harder to
actively engage remote participants, and
it's obviously more difficult
to read body language and
other queues from the audience.
We may also need to leave a bit more
time to repeat certain things and
give space to those not present
to provide their input.
We can also be strategic here,
is it important that certain
people be physically in the room?
Can we go to them?
Should we have separate face-to-face
meetings versus one conference call?
The better we know the audience, the
better decisions we can make about place.
The last element we'll discuss is process.
What we're trying to capture with process
are the expectations our audience
has on how we got to the presentation or
how we execute it.
This element is strongly dependent on the
norms and culture of the organization and
the personal expectations
of leaders involved.
For example, an executive might expect
that we've already walked the key direct
report through our proposal
before we present it to her.
And she might expect that person to
be there during the presentation.
If we haven't followed this process,
we're not likely to get the support
we need from the executive.
An organization might also have
a formal process or forum for
raising certain types of issues or
proposals.
This might be a program
management process,
a standing monthly review meeting, or even
a staff meeting of a leader or executive.
In these instances, we need to be aware of
the rules governing those processes, and
make sure we're following them.
This might impact the time we have and
the structure of our content,
among other things.
Those are a few common process
considerations, but there are others.
Is every meeting expected
to have a formal agenda?
If the meeting is over
lunch is food expected?
Is it customary to extend optional
invitations to adjacent leaders or
others involved in the process?
So what is it look like when
we put all of it together?
Let's say we've been working on
an analysis that shows an opportunity for
a targeted upsell campaign.
We've worked with marketing on
a plan to execute the campaign but
we need buy-in from both the sales and
customer management executives.
We know that both leaders expect
their teams to be engaged.
So we've had pre-meetings with each group
and invited the key folks to our meeting.
We've made sure that both leaders are
available to be in the room although we
had to drive over to the headquarters
building to ensure face-to-face meeting.
Because not everyone can make the trip,
we've set up a web meeting
with a conference bridge.
The good news is that we were able
to get a full hour on the calendars.
We really want to facilitate a discussion,
so
we've secured a room where everyone
can sit down, see each other and
see a large wall monitor where we
plan to show the presentation.
The slides themselves will be
viewable in the web conference for
remote participants but just in case
we send out the deck in advance and
we printed a few paper copies just in
case we have a technology problem.
On the day of the presentation
we leave a bit early and
set ourselves up in the room
prior to the meeting time.
We have a minor issue getting the monitor
to work but we resolved in plenty of time
to spread ourselves out in the room,
start the web conference, and
open up the conference bridge
before everyone else arrives.
We have an hour, but
we also know that executives can
get pulled away at any time.
So, we've planned our discussion so
that we can get the basics
covered in 30 minutes or so.
We have a core six page deck we want
to walk through, but we have additional
material and an appendix in case we have
questions or time for further discussion.
We also know that one of
the executives has just gotten
back from a week long conference and
the other has a major meeting with his
regional sales leaders the next day.
Our plan is to acknowledge both,
state our desire to be mindful of time and
present a proposal in a way
that leads with a punchline
then provides only the key
supporting evidence.
Experience with these leaders suggest they
prefer to cover information in that way.
If they have more detailed questions,
we're prepared with more
material in our appendix.
As you can see,
just about everything we've done,
we've done with our audience in mind.
Now anything can happen once
the meeting starts, but
if we've done a good job
of knowing our audience,
we'll maximize the likelihood that
our pitch will be successful.